# PyCitySchools_pd

## PyCity Schools Analysis

- Charter schools, on average, have a higher pass rate (90%) than District school types(53%). This can be explained through school scores by size, with smaller schools seeing a much higher pass rate (89%) than large schools (58%). In our per school summary and highest/lowest performing schools, you can notice that on average District schools have a much higher student count than Charter schools, with the highest performing schools having <2200 students and the bottom performing schools seeing a range of 2900-4700 students enrolled. Overall, District students seem to struggle more with passing math than with passing reading as reflected in calculations performed for school summary, bottom performing schoools and scores by grade. The data shows that students that attend a Charter school are more likely to pass both math and reading, as these schools have smaller class sizes and students in attendence. School type and school size seem to have the largest impacts on a students ability to succeed and pass both math and reading.
  
--- Looking at the data one conclusion found regarding per-student budget allocation was not expected. As first noticed in the 'School Summary,' and then in the 'Highest/Lowest-Performing Schools' data frame summary, the lowest performing schools were all Districts that had a fairly large 'per student budget' in comparison to the highest performing (Charter) schools that happened to have significantly lower per student budgets. Seen again in the 'Scores by School Spending,' where overall budget allocated per student did not equate to a higher pass rate, in fact schools with higher per student spending ranges saw the lowest pass rate (53%), with the overall pass rate seeing an exponential increase as the spending range per student decreased. The main point drawn was that per student spending doesn't directly equate to money allocated for each student, it is simply the per capita spending, and this money can be spent on anything form infrastrcture, school lunches, buses, or we don't know where this budget is directly going to so we can't say for certain that higher budgets would have a direct role in academic success. I was also able to justify this conclusion based on school size being directly associated to those schools with higher budgets and lower performance. School size has a large impact on a students ability to succeed as this is directly correlated to the amount of students in each class, available tutors, teachers, or resources for every student, etc. Large districts cannot always adequately staff for the amount of students attending each school, so classrooms with 30+ students can have a tremendous impact on a students ability to learn abd focus/concentrate in class. Nearly all Charter schools seemed to have a higher student pass rate in comparison to Districts, with nearly half the amount of students enrolled in the highest performing schools (Charters) than the bottom performing schools (Districts).
